---
layout: post
title: JRuby 1.4.0RC2 Released
---
The JRuby community is pleased to announce the release of JRuby 1.4.0RC2.

- Homepage: http://www.jruby.org/
- Download: http://www.jruby.org/download

The JRuby 1.4.0 release ends a long release cycle in which we resolved
a huge number of issues. The headline feature is a move to Ruby 1.8.7
support, in line with Rails' own plans to make 1.8.7 the required
minimum version of Ruby.

We have also gotten more serious about out 1.9 support (--1.9). The
bigger applications mostly just work at this point, but we still have
a ways to go on 1.9 support. Please try your 1.9 code in JRuby and
help us firm things up.

Due to the overwhelming feedback we got from RC1, we have fixed a
number of reported issues (shown below) for RC2. We expect that this
will be our last RC before 1.4.0 final.

**Please try your apps against 1.4.0RC2 ASAP and report problems.**

### 1.4.0RC2 Highlights:

- Windows Native Launcher

  - Solves many reported bugs with our old .bat scripts

### 1.4.0RC1 Highlights:

- JRuby is now compatible with 1.8.7 patchlevel 174
- New YAML parser Yecht (bug-for-bug compatible with Syck!)
- Improved Java Integration Support
  - faster
  - new java_method and java_send methods
- Windows installer
- New embedding framework
  - Java 6 scripting out of the box
  - New org.jruby.embed package to replace JavaEmbedUtils
- Many 1.9 mode (--1.9) fixes
  - updated stdlib to 1.9.2preview2
  - Rubygems now working
  - Rails 2.3.3 simple apps working (2.3.4 has 1.9 bug)
- rubygems 1.3.5
- Much better error reporting
  - shorter backtraces with less Java
  - Ruby-compatiable syntax error reporting
- 232 bugs fixed since 1.3.1

We want to give a couple of special acknowledgements for some
contributors who went the extra mile this release cycle.

David Calavera has done a great job wrestling with Rubyspec failures
and coming up with patches.

Yoko Harada has totally revamped our embedding APIs and created a new
API called Red Bridge. This should address all of the reported
embedding issues.

### Issues fixed since 1.4.0RC1:

<table summary="" border="0">
<tr><td>JRUBY-4036</td>   <td>Regression: Instead of java-based ThreadLibrary a pure-ruby thread.rb from stdlib is used</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4064</td>   <td>Yecht regression: require'ing rubygems now makes nil, true, false all tainted</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4051</td>   <td>Recieve error "\jruby-1.4.0RC1\bin\) was unexpected at this time" when i try use jruby or jirb</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4063</td>   <td>memory stomping error with debug JVM on Solaris</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4042</td>   <td>[windows] jruby.bat without parameters fails</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4055</td>   <td>[windows] jruby.bat can't handle caret sign (^) and question mark (?) in command line</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4058</td>   <td>[windows] jruby.bat eats % signs</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4056</td>   <td>unsigned values values should be stuffed into Java signed values like Java does</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4039</td>   <td>Implicit conversion to List&lt;Long> results in a List&lt;Byte> or List&lt;Integer></td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4079</td>   <td>rcov fails with NullPointerException with JRuby 1.4.0RC1. Has worked with all JRuby versions since 2008.</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4041</td>   <td>tool/nailgun/configure is not executable</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4069</td>   <td>[windows] jruby.jar is not in bootclasspath, JRuby starts much slower then it colud</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4071</td>   <td>SystemCallError.new does not create an Errno instance</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4089</td>   <td>Mangled Joda-Time package breaks public APIs that return or consume Joda-Time objects</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4045</td>   <td>[windows] jruby -e "p $LOAD_PATH" fails (regression)</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4066</td>   <td>ruby subclass of java public void method cannot return numeric values</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4043</td>   <td>could not coerce BigDecimal to class java.lang.Object (TypeError)</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4053</td>   <td>ActiveRecord AssociationCollection#== method is returning false on equal results</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4094</td>   <td>variadic FFI functions with struct-by-value return types are broken</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4062</td>   <td>RUBYOPT=-rubygems causes various problems for JRuby</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4060</td>   <td>gem command doesn't work when RUBYOPT set</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4038</td>   <td>nil implicitly casts to java.lang.Integer instead of java.lang.Long during method dispatch</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4095</td>   <td>FFI functions that return a struct-by-value cannot accept non-primitive parameters</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4111</td>   <td>Solaris 32bit stat struct too large</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4108</td>   <td>LoadService::SuffixType too private now for LoadService magic</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4131</td>   <td>Nailgun doesn't work on Windows 2000</td></tr>
<tr><td>JRUBY-4129</td>   <td>gem install can not work when the gem name contails '_p'</td></tr>
</table>
